okay so fill proper building regulatory
types have done much good sign
see fire tests on straw bales and
they're supposedly quite resistant to
fire once they get their plaster on
obviously not so good without the
plaster but we thought we'd do a little
test of our room so here we go
okay so I'm getting the feeling Olivia
for very long time
a bit towards the edgeware it's probably
been one
who they say Intermediate School by the
Louisville hatches immediately which is
expected
these straw burns away they're small
bears - you like when they're compacted
they're supposed to be reasonably
fire-breathing there's only the loose
bits that stick out the end
from here you can see the cross section
of the school ii so CR extracted into
the
cross section of the class size hair is
flattened into the cross section
if I was in a cage until the failure
point
as well
in that tiny patch stores already
bone-dry if the stuff around the edges
is burning where oxygen Kennedy
really burning a little bit but it sort
of smolders and then it's the stuff
round the outside that burns its kind of
stuff burns very quickly
hmm
so quite fire brief I think was
intending to burn this whole Bale and we
have the hose and things on standby said
so they'll be disappointing in some ways
there we go okay so we how to think over
lunch
the new attempt of testing to
destruction
soon after that we ran out of time it
all took a lot longer than expected
mainly the Bayeux stayed intact which
was kind of good even when the bail
strings burnt through about halfway
through this it still held together
quite well the plaster on the outside
really kept the structure together so
yeah even though this was nothing like a
scientific test this door so shows straw
bale construction sort of seems on the
surface at least quite resistant to fire
especially if it's fully covered in
plaster